# Rust API and PHP
API: CRUD function that connects to an Employee database.
PHP: web ui to decrypt encrypted JSON output from API and display said data in plaintext form.

Made using Rust and using Axum as web app framework.

Features:
JWT authentication (secret key stored at Environment Variables) and API rate limiting.
SODIUM encryption and decryption of JSON output from API.
- Encryption key is currently generated by API once on server startup. The key will change on every server resets.
- Decryption is currently performed by API, under /decrypt endpoint. Will remove and change to upcoming PHP layer
  
To be implemented:
- Change token reference from windows environmental variables to local file (for more security)
- Removal of /decrypt from API, and then implement it on PHP layer.

To run the API, these Pre-requisites are needed:
1. XAMPP software with MySQL and database initialized. Database should run before launching the API
Database can be generated from included employee.sql file.
2. Rust installed.
3. JWT secret key (64 Bytes, generate from: https://jwtsecret.com/generate). (Then, set to your OS' Environment Variables setting under JWT_SECRET.) <- to be changed
4. JWT web token:
PAYLOAD:DATA format
{
  "sub": "your_username", // Set with any username you want
  "exp": 1742803200 // set to at least 1 hour or more from current time. Use https://www.unixtimestamp.com/index.php for unix time stamp format)
}
VERIFY SIGNATURE:
- Paste the generated secret key to obtain the encoded JWT token.

Once downloaded, open terminal/cmd, navigate to directory containing the files, and then run 'cargo build'
Then, run 'cargo run' to launch the server. 
